Education Speech 1
Good morning to the Excellencies, distinguished guests, my respected teachers, and my dear friends. The topic of my speech is education. Through my speech, I will let you know all about the value of education and its contribution in our lives. Education is the tool that helps us remove our all doubts and fears about all the challenges and happiness in our lives. It is the tool that keeps us happy and peaceful as well as makes us better socialize human beings. Our teachers are like God for us who helps us all in getting good quality education from the institutions. They try their best to make us learn everything and shape us for future challenges. Our teacher comes into our lives, removes all the darkness, removes all the fears, removes all the doubts, and helps us to find a beautiful career in this big world.

Education is not about to gain only knowledge, however it means, learning the ways to be happy, learning the way to keep others happy, learning the way to live in society, learning the way to tackle challenges, learning the way to help others, learning the way to care older, and learning the way how to behave others. My dear friends, education is like a healthy food that nourishes us both internally and externally. It makes us strong internally and gives lots of confidence by making our personality and giving us knowledge. Good education is only way to remove bad habits, poverty, inequality, gender discrimination, and so many social issues.

Thank you.

Education Speech 2
Good morning to my respected teachers and my dear friends. My dear friends, education is the tool which removes all the differences among us and makes us capable to go ahead together. It makes our challenging paths of the life very easy to lead. Getting quality education is like yoga and meditation as it requires concentration, patience and dedication. Without education, there is no difference between human beings and animals. Education is a powerful tool capable to solve all the social, personal and family problems. It is like a medicine which has capability to treat almost all the diseases. Getting education is not only means to get good job, it means to make a good personality, to be healthy and fit, to maintain hygiene, to be happy all time, to behave well to others, to tackle all challenges of life and so many.

Education is most important to all of us to lead a happy life. Earlier the education system in India was so poor and undisciplined. The kids of rich people were allowed to study however kids of poor people were not allowed to study in the same school or college. Poor people were forced to do labour in the fields only, which was the main reason of discrimination among people in society, inequality, gender inequality, and lots of social issues because of the lack of good education. Low level of education for poor people made them vulnerable to the economic and political exploitation in their own country. There has been made adequate provisions for the poor people in the Indian constitution in order to remove inequality and ensure the empowerment and participation of people of all levels equally.

The right for proper education is the birth right of everyone, restricting one from getting proper education is the crime. Education helps us to understand between good or bad, right or wrong and help us in taking decision in the favour of right ones. It helps us in everything of wide range of problems. We can solve the mysteries of this universe. Education is like magic which helps us to learn all the magic to stay happily on this planet. It keeps us free of all doubts, superstitions as well as removes away all the social evils affecting the society. Better educated people can safeguard their family and nation in more secure and easy way.

Thank You

Education Speech 3
Good morning to my respected teachers and my dear friends. Today, at this great occasion, I would like to speech about the education and its values in our lives. Education means a lot to us, without education we are nothing. We get motivated towards the education from our childhood by our parents and from teachers when we start going to school. If one is getting proper education from childhood, doing a best investment of his/her life. Education is not only means to read, write or learn, it is the way to live positively and live life happily. It benefits everyone related to the person such as personal, family, neighbours, society, community and country. It is the best tool to remove poverty and inequality from the society. It provides everyone critical skills and technical knowledge to serve better in their own life, family society and country.

Education provides better opportunity in future for viable economic growth. It helps us to keep ourselves and people related to us happy and healthy. Proper education prevents us from the many diseases as well as helps fight the spread of communicable diseases like HIV/AIDS, infections, etc. It helps to make future bright in all aspects. It gives proper understanding to us to tackle to many problems all through the life. Through the proper education, one knows the value of people and value of unity which ultimately reduces the conflicts among people in family, society and country. Good education is the best tool for any nation to go ahead, grow and develop among other strong nations. Well educated people of any country are the most precious assets of that country. Education is the way to reduce mother and child mortality rate by improving their health.

Education brings transparency, stability, good governance as well as helps to fight against graft and corruption. Still, in many backwards regions the meaning of education is nothing. They are so poor that they spend their whole day in earning only two times food. They understand that earning money from childhood is good instead of wasting money in education. Education is really an amazing tool which raises income, improves health, promotes gender equality, mitigates climate change, reduces poverty and so many. It helps in making a peaceful environment at home or in office. Education provides intellectual freedom and keeps us happy physically, mentally, socially and intellectually. It promotes the habit of ideas and experiences sharing among people as well as motivates them for morals, ethics and community responsibilities.

Education provides us wide range of knowledge such as art, history, sports, maths, literature and fields. Education is the basic building blocks of success, bright career and better quality of life.

Thank You

Education Speech 4
Good morning to my respected teachers and my colleagues. As we have gathered here to celebrate this auspicious occasion, I would like to speech on education. It’s very hard to imagine a world without schools and colleges. I think it is impossible for everyone. Every one of us gets problem in waking up in the early morning or studying all through the night during monthly tests and examinations. However, we all know well about the value and importance of the education in our life. It is not true that if one does not get proper education, he becomes fail in life. However, education provides better chance in life to always go ahead and easy ways to get success in life. Education is very important to all of us as it provides confidence and dare to lot of problems.

Educated people are better able to fulfil their dreams in comparison to uneducated people. Education is very important for a person to overcome all the ancient superstitions which negatively affects our lives even after being baseless and useless. Illiterate and uneducated people become more prone to the superstitious beliefs very easily as they have no clue about truth. Education improves our awareness about the reality of superstitions and replaces all the negative beliefs with proper reasons and logics. In the ever changing world of high technologies, it needs to be careful and updated all time which is not possible without education. Without education it is not possible for everyone to accept and adapt all the changes of modern world.

A well educated person becomes more aware of the latest technologies and keeps himself more updated to the all changes going throughout the world. In this advance world of internet, everyone go to internet and search required information to get online and quick knowledge. The education system in the modern world has become so easy and comfortable than the ancient time just because of the internet. Everyone knows how to surf internet however uneducated one may not know all the benefits of the internet however educated one understand internet as a gift of technology and use in their personal and professional life to make better and happy career.

Education involves better in the life to make it happy and healthy. Illiterate people do lots of ignorance towards their health, family, society and country. Such ignorance may prove very dangerous in their life and personal and national growth and development. Educated people know better how to keep themselves happy and healthy as well as prevent from a number of diseases. Educated person knows well about the symptoms of any disease and never avoid seeking medical aids unless symptoms gone completely however uneducated person do opposite because of lack of knowledge and poverty. It makes us confident, more sociable and more responsible towards our life.

Thank You

